I want to give you a shot to go do this,
so
we're gonna pop back
over to quick sort here,
quick sort, okay, and so,
here we're gonna say base case, right?
So what is base case, array of length
zero or one in this particular case,
we actually will see lots of
arrays of length zero, right?
Because if there's nothing
in the left array,
we're going to call quick sort on that,
and we need to handle that, so
make sure you're providing for
length zero or length one.
Choose pivot.
Here we're gonna separate into left and
right arrays.
Call quick sort.
On, left and right arrays.
Return, Left.
Can cat, Pivot, great.
That's it, that's the whole thing.
Probably, I might have diagrammed
that a little too out for you, but
everyone can use a wind today [LAUGH] so
I'm gonna give you 15 minutes
to go ahead and get this done.
And then you and I are gonna come back and
do this together,
and again make sure you move
test out skip there, and
yeah again this sorting visualizer
is not gonna help you with this.
So the question is this,
if I have duplicate in my array, so
if I have five and my pivot is five does
the duplicate five go on the left or
does it go on the right?
And the answer is, doesn't matter, because
it's gonna get sorted either way and
I don't believe quicksort is stable,
off top my head have to look.
But in any case, in general with those
kind of calls, it's just be consistent,
so, if it's gonna go left always put in
the left, if it's gonna go right always
put it in the right, but
in the end it just be consistent.
Let's go ahead and go through this, so
base case here,
if nums style length is less than or
equal to one, then you just return nums.
Okay, gonna choose a pivot,
and in our case,
we're just always going to
go with the last one, so
const pivot equals nums of
nums dot length minus one.
So that's gonna be our pivot.
And we'll separate into left and
right arrays, so
we're gonna say const left equals empty
array, const right equals empty array.
And then we're gonna say,
four let I equals zero,
I is less than nums dot length minus one,
cuz the pivot is the last number, so
we don't wanna capture that one,
I plus, plus.
And we're gonna say if nums
of I is less than pivot.
Then we're going to say left dot
push nums of I else, all right,
dot push nums of I, okay, so
now we have a pivot we have a left array
which contains everything is smaller.
We have a right array which contains
everything that's larger, so
we can say const sorted left,
equals quick sort left,
const sorted right
equals quick Sort right.
And then I actually think that's just
straight up valid JavaScript, so
I think you can just say that, this
would actually have to be sorted left,
sorted left, sorted, right.
That works, after I wrote the skip,
and quick sort,
do right, there it is, so pivots fine,
even though this is just
a number concat is smart
enough to say it's like
this is just a number.
It's not an array, so I'm just going
to insert this as an item in the array.
If you look to my course notes, I actually
combined two these three
lines into one and
I said return dot dot dot quick sort left,
pivot dot dot dot quicksort right,
like this.
This should work as well, but
let's just make sure quick, so
where are you right there, click play, and
you can see there that also works as well.
This is called the spread operator,
it's new as of yes five, so
I think it's actually like six
years old now, this is saying like,
this is an array please spread this
out over this new array, right?
But this line and
this line end up being equivalent.